OpenID Connect is built on top of OAuth2.
So we have the same actors, the client, the resource server,
the authorization server, and the resource owner.
Let's go through a quick example.
Now we're going to switch to Google as they are an OpenID Connect provider.
Facebook uses their own implementation of OAuth2 called Facebook Connect.
It's very similar to OpenID Connect.
Fortunately,
Spring Security actually support's Facebook's
implementation right out of the box.
Now if we quickly go through the flow,
after Victoria selects Sign in with Google,
the main difference is the redirect from the clients will now contain the
OpenID scope followed by all the optional or custom scopes.
The authorization server will now know to use the OpenID Connect flow.
If the user consents, the client gets an authorization code,
which he then uses to exchange for the access token and
additionally now the ID token and optionally,
of course, the refresh token.
The ID token is for the client to use to verify the authentication while the
access token can be used against the UserInfo endpoint to retrieve any
additional information or claims about the resource owner.
And the refresh token can be used to request a new access token once it expires.
Now the above flow we described is the authorization code grant.
In addition to this, there is the implicit flow and hybrid flow.
We will go into more details around these flows in the
upcoming modules when we discuss public clients.
Next,
we will talk about the radical change the Spring team have taken to support JWT, OAuth2, and OpenID Connect in Spring.